docs/user_guide/performance.rst, before:

**********************
Optimizing Performance
**********************

.. _caching:

Caching
=======
While the computation that occurs when accessing the ``opd`` attribute in the
example above isn't terribly expensive, that computation (along with many other
similar computations) may be performed tens, hundreds, or even thousands of times
in the process of performing a single propagation.

Lentil provides a caching mechanism to reduce the number of times these
computations are performed. The :class:`~lentil.modeltools.cached_property`
decorator is a drop-in replacement for Python's ``property`` decorator and ensures
that decorated functions have their values computed and cached once at the beginning
of a propagation. The cache is automatically cleared when the propagation is
complete.

.. _performance-image-simulation:

Image simulation
================



Speeding up the FFT
===================


Multiprocessing
===============

Other Performance Tweaks
========================

Faster photon to electron (quantum efficiency) calculations
-----------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

Rework Plane attribute caching
* Deprecate cached_property decorator

* Adjust the underlying approach to caching Plane attributes:
    * Attributes which are actually cached when cache_propagate() is
      called are defined in a new Plane.cache_attrs property
    * Plane.ptt_vector is always cached
    * amplitude and phase getters are updated to always return the
      local version. If either amplitude or plane is redefined in a
      subclass, a property get will still be cached because of the
      new cache_propagate behavior
    * amplitude and plane setters no longer call cache.delete(). This
      functionality was moved to the Cache.set() method

* Adjust the way cached Plane attributes are used by propagate():
    * propagate() relies on Plane.multiply() to apply the effect of a
      Plane on a Wavefront. multiply() was adjusted to get cached
      amplitude and phase attributes if they exist, otherwise the local
      attribute getter is called

* Update documentation and tests to reflect new functionality

docs/user_guide/performance.rst, after:

**********************
Optimizing Performance
**********************

.. _caching:

Caching
=======
A number of plane attributes are accessed with each propagation wavelength. This
behavior does does not impact performance unless any of these attributes are computed on
the fly or are otherwise expensive to retrieve. To mitigate any potential performance
impacts, Lentil's :func:`~lentil.propagate` method performs a pre-propagation caching
step by calling each plane's :func:`~lentil.Plane.cache_propagate` method, temporarily
storing a copy of possibly expensive to compute attributes for faster access during the
actual numerical propagation. When the propagation calculations are complete, a
post-propagation cleanup calls each plane's :func:`~lentil.Plane.clear_cache_propagate`
to clear any cached values.

The cached attributes are defined in a list in each Plane's
:attr:`~lentil.Plane.cache_attrs` attribute. This list is user-settable but the only
valid values are `'amplitude'` and `'phase'`. The default behavior is to cache both
amplitude and phase attributes.


.. _performance-image-simulation:

Image simulation
================



.. Speeding up the FFT
.. ===================


.. Multiprocessing
.. ===============

.. Other Performance Tweaks
.. ========================

.. Faster photon to electron (quantum efficiency) calculations
.. -----------------------------------------------------------
